# dcnwb2rdf
Scripts used to convert DataCite metadata and NWB metadata to JSON format 

This repository contains scripts used to to generate the results reported in the
2017 Society for Neuroscience conference poster described at:

http://www.abstractsonline.com/pp8/#!/4376/presentation/34934

The scripts retrieve metadata from both DataCite and NWB files and convert the metadata
to JSON format so it can then be converted to RDF (OWL) using Json2Semantic available
from:
https://github.com/jezekp/Json2Semantic

Json2Semantic is a light-weight wrapper for the Semantic-Framework tool:
https://github.com/NEUROINFORMATICS-GROUP-FAV-KIV-ZCU/Semantic-Framework
The Json2Semantic tool generates Java model according to a Json document then the
Semantic-Framework generates a RDF document from the Java objects generated by the first tool.

The scripts in this repository are organized into two directories:

*datacite* - scripts to download DataCite.org metadata for CRCNS.org datasets
   and convert it from XML to JSON, and

*nwb* - Extract metadata from NWB files (version 1.0.6) and store it as JSON


Information about the poster is:

Session 174 - Systems Biology and Bioinformatics
174.05 / UU26 - Making structured neurophysiology data searchable using Semantic Web methods
authors: *J. L. TEETERS, P. JEŽEK, S. MACKESEY, F. SOMMER; 
Redwood Ctr. for Theoretical Neurosci., UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA

Abstract:

The representation of neuroscience data that enables searching and sharing between labs is challenging.
Custom data structures specific to a lab need to be represented in a standardized way so that
common tools can be deployed. Semantic Web technologies offer potential for representing a
variety of neuroscientific data in a common format. The primary unit of data in the Semantic
Web is the RDF (Resource Description Framework) triple; data represented in RDF triples is
searchable with a query language called SPARQL. We present a system for mapping neuroscience
metadata in two existing formats into RDF triples:
1) DataCite [1], provides an infrastructure to register structured metadata describing shared 
datasets and is used to generate a DOI that can be used to cite datasets. Registration of a
dataset requires submitting an XML document with metadata describing the dataset. Since 
DataCite is designed to work with data from any domain, it does not include predefined structures
that are specific for neurophysiology metadata.
2) The Neurodata Without Borders: Neurophysiology (NWB) format [2,3] provides standard ways of
storing neurophysiology data of different types and associated metadata. The NWB format can be
extended in a structured way by defining extensions using a specification language or through
custom additions that are not defined using an extension.
The data used to develop these methods is available at CRCNS.org, an online repository 
hosting publicly available neurophysiology data.
[1] http://datacite.org
[2] http://nwb.org/nwb-neurophysiology/
[3] http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2015.10.025  
